Tim Berners Lee, the creator of the World Wide Web once said, "The power of the Web is in its universality. Access by everyone regardless of disability is an essential aspect." A description of web accessibility from W3C states that the Web is fundamentally designed to work for all people, whatever their hardware, software, language, location, or ability. When the Web meets this goal, it is accessible to people with a diverse range of hearing, movement, sight, and cognitive ability. Thus the impact of disability is radically changed on the Web because the Web removes barriers to communication and interaction that many people face in the physical world. However, when web sites, applications, technologies, or tools are badly designed, they can create barriers that exclude people from using the Web. Accessibility is essential for developers and organizations that want to create high quality websites and web tools, and not exclude people from using their products and services. The UBC Women's Centre has created our website using a static site generator with accessibility in mind. We try to provide any user an easy way to navigate and interact with our site. Because of this, we made our HTML code as semantic as possible, so that the code is easy to understand for visitors and screen readers. However, we understand, with graphics, color choices, and layouts, our website still may not accessible be for everyone. To make our website resources and information more accessible, text file descriptions of most pages are located at the top of the page. We also have included a complete website description as one of the first headers, making it very accessible for those using readers. Including basic text files for each page also makes it easier for screen readers, but also those who have settings to enable resizing, font change, and webpage contrast. Please let us know if anything on the website is not working for you. Contact us by sending an email to ubcwomenscentre@gmail.com or by completing the contact form on the website.